hi everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync for monday
the 14th of september
i'm making brain i will be your host we
are going to go through our high
priority initiatives
other initiatives and have q a parking
lot
what fun let's get started
for the high priority initiatives
upcoming and ship releases
we can talk about that
yeah so the ipfs 0.7 rc2 went out
last week that includes a few bug fixes
for things and then we should be on
target to release 0.7 this week
edem you are muted but not muted yeah
yes uh as it stands right now thanks uh
the only things that need to go into 0.7
are uh a web ui update
uh which is coming soon and
um like a tiny bug fix there's a little
bit of investigating about like
some some performance things just like
double check that everything is is
working exactly as we we think it should
um but everything looks good
excellent very exciting
next up is the pinning services
yeah so that's um that is underway
uh we have
we have a server that that responds to
things we have an http client that
responds to
things and sends requests um
we have a good chunk of the
initial ipfs go ipfs integration
um done uh
sort of enough for for everyone for
folks who are working
on this in you know js land
uh in the http client and in web ui to
play around with things
um and then we need to go in back we're
we still need to go and
uh sort of backfill back fill in all the
details
um so that's that's still underway
things like uh
like handling key material
[Music]
which right now is done with environment
variables just to like you know get
things done
on the api spec side i
should make a new
version of the spec like tomorrow
probably tomorrow
or late to today um with
recent clarifications to the
in to the documentation and the
actual changes to the spec are we will
have
more like we will have a
revamped error responses and i believe
we are decreasing the limit
of how many cids can be passed in the
cid filter
uh because like cid is effectively like
60 characters
the url has can like fit around
2 000 in the web browsers so it's like
not realistic to say
it's max 1000 when you can just fit like
so uh we are setting a hard limit to 10
cids
and that will make this implementation
easier for
pinning services uh if they need to
cross
check things then that's just 10c 10cids
at the time that's about it i feel we
are closer and closer to the
point where we are happy with the spec
and docks
so that will be uh
minor release and the plan is to
target major 1.0 when effectively go
ipfs
ships with a client
that would be like a milestone for
saying okay the spec is solid now
uh does decreasing the
the num the max number of of cids to 10.
do we also state in this fact that like
it should just be
less than 2 000 characters such that
if in the future it's if in the future
cids get big enough such that that
crosses the line somehow
that we're still backed up there
well yeah we could uh add it to the
description also
like it's impossible to execute such
query in the
like browser runtime so it's like self
blocked on the runtime level yeah well
it's blocked at the runtime level for
browsers but not if someone wants to do
this and they're just sending http
requests from like
go or whatever yeah that's true someone
could like
create cidv1 with sha 512
now and those will be super long yeah
yeah with that
me too next up is the uh ed25519 default
keys
yeah for that and sec io those are both
just waiting on the 0.7
release um yeah and then i still need to
add that pr for
js ipfs to get rid of psycho so we'll do
that this week
sweet uh next up is the rust ipfs
initiative
demos amazing
hey folks um
so the last big piece of work was
opinion dht that i talked about
last week or the week before so this
week was just cleaning up
and adding some more interrupt tests
and conformance tests and things like
that you're welcome to go and click
through those pr's but it's just a lot
of like reorganizing and stuff so it
probably won't be too exciting but um
a couple of items on the list down there
uh there's a couple things to check out
for people there's a
substrate plus ipfs
tech preview so you can see how
those two things are um interrupt
um and then uh we launched a website
called
are we ipfs yet.rs which has the
enumerated um conformance tests and so
is
sort of exactly where we're at with
things which i feel like will be useful
to people
um and then just a side note um
goes allah rockley uh we should talk
soon because um orbit db
is coming out with another version and
uh the next version after that we could
potentially target the
shared worker but i don't want to go too
deep into that right now but i just
wanted to note that
so that's all for me i'm happy to talk
whenever awesome
um question about the uh dht in in rust
are you implementing anything like
autonat or any any way to
be able to tell peers that aren't
good that they should not be servers no
we are not we're we're piggybacking on
top of rustling p2p which does not have
autonet yet so dhd publication is still
a problem
um but we are we can discover
cids all day or you know discover
content all day
uh there is a pull request in
uh run slip p2p i'll paste it in there
that
somebody took a stab at doing up on that
um
so if you want to nudge that or support
that effort or i don't know
but uh that's that's sort of the state
of things right now
yeah i mean yeah just it may be worth
considering that until that's
done it might be worth uh
leaving the leaving the dht's in client
mode
okay so that we don't end up with like
bad nodes again like we've had him go
for a while
okay yeah i'll pass that request along
and we'll
see if we can do that i don't know that
there's any nodes running right now but
you know we're just in our testing and
stuff we'll do that
yeah just like more of a just like a
future looking thing
for network integration for sure
awesome next up is the uh jsp
discoverability and connectivity
that's cool hey folks so uh regarding
the auto relay part of things
uh i basically addressed jacob's review
from
my initial pr initial implementation it
should be
mostly ready just needs a final review
from jacob
then i started doing some follow-up prs
uh on that with the accessibility
to other stuff like pr for updating the
network on
a new listing address existence this
basically needs to identify push
but we also needed to update the
self-signed peer record which we
weren't doing before when the
multi-other updates
and it's also ready that pr
but i'm waiting for the first one to get
merged before asking for a review
then i'm currently working on the last
part of the auto relay which is
basically to find remote realize
if we don't have enough appears
connected that offer the relay according
to what we want
or if we don't have any of them in the
our peers are as well
persisted so basically for finding a
remote relays i'm
basically inspired inspired by the gold
b2b discovery module
uh so the goal is to have a service
discovery
which uses uh content routing review
discovery and
other things in the future where
basically the goal is to
appears to register offering a certain
namespace service
and then you you can find this service
in the network and you'll get the peers
that offer this service
and then you can dial them if you want
and
in this case you basically bind to them
to for them to be
also out early for you uh this basically
seemed easier for me first but then i
realized that i needed to
do some changes in the circuit transport
and i'm now
decoupling it from the service itself
because for example we want the relay
service to have
a life cycle message such as the
starting stop
so that we can in the start of the relay
service
do this provide things saying yeah i'm a
relay so you can
ask me to relay stuff for you if you
want and
in the transport as we basically fulfill
the interface transport it was
not the most good approach
yeah so that's my current point in
in the auto relay and i hope i will
finish
over the next two or three days all the
work in progress stuff for
this and after that i aim to start the
connection manager overall epic which is
also linked in the
notes and that's it
i'll make sure to give the auto relay
review again
by tomorrow
cool that rounds off the
main initiatives um moving on to the
other initiatives
uh i'm going to skip over the subdomain
gateway and the unix of sv 1.5 and go
ipfs before because there is no
update for those initiatives um so
gaza do you want to tell us what's going
on with the dexa
um nothing really i've been doing other
stuff
so that's on a back burner um
web ui file it i think it's there's one
pull request that it's kind of
stuck on and it's awaiting on something
else that i can't
quite remember what i think on changes
to the
go ipfs uh http server
and i think after that we can land it um
i haven't had time to add another item
but i'll talk about it and then
later uh so i start uh taking over some
of the
typescript work from hugo um
there's a giant pull request that i sent
to alex
um it's mostly comments so it should be
not
so bad but there are a few changes that
were required because
uh as we start generating type docs it
starts to figure out some of the issues
that we were not aware of
so there are a little bit of that but
rest is just comments
um yeah so i'll be focusing on that this
week to
try to get through
i promise i will get to that oh i don't
even know we'll get to i promise we'll
get that match by the end of the week
because it's monster um but yeah it does
it looks great cool
that is it for the other initiatives um
so moving on uh design review proposals
anybody who wants something like shoulda
did
who uh blockers and asks
uh there are a number of of tests
that i want to do before the go ips
release
including things like the orbit db test
on npm on ipfs that if i could get
some backup on would be excellent
um yeah if anyone's got time if anyone's
got time for that would be
would be much appreciated i might be
able to help you with that let's uh
let's talk
yeah thank you
uh feel free to bring me about the npm
on pivot stuff as well
so questions anybody got any questions
you also need answers if there are
questions
parking lot
anything that doesn't fit in any of the
above categories
i guess i thought that i had that i i
posted to some ipld folks
recently was that it might be
interesting
for us to uh have
for us to have a way to uh have
identifiers for content that are much
longer
than than just a multi-hash and that
they include
like we'll call it more complicated
cryptographic proofs
um i'm thinking of this in the context
of the folks who want to add
gate repos with like you know 100
megabyte blocks in them
through ipfs but it won't work because
like we won't process blocks bigger than
a megabyte
but in order to restructure the data and
now all the hashes change and so like
there are various proofs you could
construct but it's not clear how we
would actually convey those like how we
would actually move them around even
once you figure out how to construct the
proofs
so if that is something you're
interested in then
uh ipld channel might be a place to
to discuss that
cool do drop by if you are interested
okay if there's nothing else uh then we
can call this meeting closed everybody
gets 10 minutes back
or 11 minutes amazing uh thank you very
much for coming everyone this has been
the iphone core infinitations weekly
sync for monday the 14th of september
be good stay safe see you on the
internet bye